#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass svglobal3
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{booktabs,threeparttable}
\end_preamble
\options referee,smallextended,12pt
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing double
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Pay for the option to pay? The impact of improved scientific information
 on payments for ecosystem services
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Susan Stratton Sayre
\end_layout

\begin_layout Institute
Assistant Professor, Department of Economics, Smith College, Northampton,
 MA, ssayre@smith.edu
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The scientific information to precisely link land use changes to changes
 in ecosystem service provision is often unavailable, particularly for hydrologi
cal ecosystem services.
 Potential buyers of ecosystem services must weigh the risk of paying to
 incentive conservation that fails to deliver valuable ecosystem services
 against the risk that land is developed before its value is known.
 This paper uses a two period model to assess when expected future improvements
 in scientific information should substantially impact payments for conservation
 today.
 Optimal current payments increase, often substantially, as the quality
 of expected future information increases, but the gain from increasing
 payments to account for the expected degree of improved information is
 small in many cases.
 Larger values occur when the buyer believes that the land whose private
 development value is the highest also provides the highest ecosystem service,
 when the buyer faces relatively more uncertainty about ecosystem service
 provision than about the cost of inducing conservation, and when the buyer
 believes land is highly likely to be developed absent incentive payments.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Keywords: ecosystem services; uncertainty; option value; numerical simulation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Acknowledgements
This work was inspired in part by conversations with Drew Guswa and Casey
 Brown.
 I would like to thank Vis Taraz for helpful discusssions and comments on
 earlier drafts of this work.
 I also appreciate the comments and suggestions of participants at the 2016
 NAREA Annual Meeting.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
